.TH WLC 7 2016-04-20 WLC "Wayland Library Compositor"

.SH NAME
wlc \- the wayland library compositor

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wlc
is a library created to make writing wayland compositors easier by providing
most of the necessary interface to the wayland protocol.

.SS General concepts

.B Views
.RS
Surfaces with interactive roles which handling is left to user of wlc library
(usually windows, handled by window manager).
.RE

.B Surfaces
.RS
Rectangular area that is displayed on the screen. It has a location, size and
pixel contents. wlc's views are surfaces that have interactive role assigned.

.UR http://wayland.freedesktop.org/docs/html/apa.html#protocol-spec-wl_surface
.UE
.RE

.B Outputs
.RS
Target which containing surfaces are composed to.  Output may be physical
monitor, remote desktop, render node, etc.
.RE

.SS Protocol extensions

.B xdg-surface
.RS
Provides surface role for traditional desktop like behaviour.  The extension is
still in development, but preferred and is the one that will be used by major
DEs (GNOME, KDE, E*).
.RE

.B shell-surface
.RS
Deprecated surface role built into libwayland.  It's not suitable for desktops
and is currently only used by legacy programs and by Qt.

.UR http://wayland.freedesktop.org/docs/html/apa.html#protocol-spec-wl_shell_surface
.UE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.B WLC_SHM
.RS
Takes a boolean
.I 0
or
.IR 1 ,
true forces EGL clients to fallback on shm. (Default:
.IR 0 )
.RE

.B WLC_DEBUG
.RS
Takes a comma-separated list of values which enable corresponding debug section
in wlc. These include:

.B handle
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B render
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B render-loop
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B focus
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B xwm
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B keyboard
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B commit
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B request
.RS
Stub.
.RE
.RE

.B WLC_DRM_DEVICE
.RS
The DRM device used when running under the DRM backend. (Default:
.IR card0 )
.RE

.B WLC_XWAYLAND
.RS
Takes a boolean
.I 0
or
.I 1
which disables or enables the use of xwayland respectively. (Default:
.IR 1 )
.RE

.B WLC_DRAW_OPAQUE
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B WLC_OUTPUTS
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B WLC_LIBINPUT
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B WLC_REPEAT_DELAY
.RS
The time in milliseconds before keyboard repeat initiates.
.RE

.B WLC_REPEAT_RATE
.RS
The speed in milliseconds at which the keyboard repeats depressed keys.
.RE

.B WAYLAND_DEBUG
.RS
Enables message tracing in libwayland. Possible values are
.IR 1 , " client"
and
.IR server .
.RE

.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
.RS
Stubby McStub.
.RE

.B XDG_SEAT
.RS
Stubby.
When using logind this environment is honored during compositor initialization.
.RE

.B XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT
.RS
This corresponds to the layout you might use in X11 such as
.BR gb .
Use this if you want to select a non-us keyboard layout.
.RE

.B XKB_DEFAULT_OPTIONS
.RS
Sets the keyboard options. The syntax is the same (comma-separated values) as
within an
.I xorg.conf
or when used via
.IR setxkbmap " " -option .
For example
.I compose:ralt,ctrl:nocaps
would set
.I ralt
to the compose key and cause the
.I Caps Lock
key to mimic 
.IR ctrl .
.RE

.B XKB_DEFAULT_VARIANT
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B XKB_DEFAULT_RULES
.RS
Stub.
.RE

.B XKB_DEFAULT_MODEL
.RS
Stub.
.RE
